README.md, before:

# DDTracking: A Deep Generative Framework for Diffusion MRI Tractography

**DDTracking** is a deep learning-based pipeline for diffusion MRI tractography. It covers the complete workflow—from dataset preparation and model training to fiber tracking using pre-trained models.

## Installation

### 1. Python 3 (Miniconda Recommended)

Download and install [Miniconda for Python 3](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html) (choose 64-bit or 32-bit based on your system):

```
sh Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh -b  # Automatically accepts license agreement
```

Activate the base environment:

```
source ~/miniconda3/bin/activate
```

> You should see `(base)` appear in your terminal prompt.

### 2. Create and Activate Conda Environment

```
conda env create -f requirements.yaml
conda activate DDTracking
```

---

###### 3. Download Pre-trained Model Weights

Download the model weights from the [GitHub release page](https://github.com/yishengpoxiao/DDTracking/releases/tag/v0.1):

```
cd DDTracking
wget https://github.com/yishengpoxiao/DDTracking/releases/download/v0.1/weights.tar.gz
tar -xzvf weights.tar.gz
```

---

## Usage

### Inference: Fiber Tracking with Pre-trained Model

To perform tractography using a pre-trained model:

```
python tractography.py --config track_config.yaml --track
```

Modify `track_config.yaml` to match your input paths and desired parameters.

---

### Training: Train Your Own Model

To train a model using your own dataset, structure your data as follows:

```
dataset/
├── sub-001/
│   ├── dwi/
│   │   ├── sub-001_dwi.nii.gz
│   │   ├── sub-001_dwi.bval
│   │   └── sub-001_dwi.bvec
│   ├── mask/
│   │   ├── sub-001_brain-mask.nii.gz
│   │   └── sub-001_wm_mask.nii.gz
│   └── merged_tract/
│       └── tract_whole_tract.trk
├── sub-002/
│   └── ...
```

Then run distributed training:

```
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,... torchrun --nproc_per_node=<NUM_GPUS> tractography.py --config train_config.yaml --train
```

Replace `<NUM_GPUS>` with the number of available GPUs.

## Acknowledgments

This work is supported by:

- **National Key R&D Program of China** (No. 2023YFE0118600)
  
- **National Natural Science Foundation of China** (No. 62371107)
  

## Contact

For questions, suggestions, or contributions, please create an issue or pull request on GitHub.

Commit message:

Enhance README with preprocessing instructions
Added preprocessing steps for extracting B shells and rigid registration to MNI space in the README.

README.md, after:

# DDTracking: A Deep Generative Framework for Diffusion MRI Tractography

**DDTracking** is a deep learning-based pipeline for diffusion MRI tractography. It covers the complete workflow—from dataset preparation and model training to fiber tracking using pre-trained models.

## Installation

### 1. Python 3 (Miniconda Recommended)

Download and install [Miniconda for Python 3](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html) (choose 64-bit or 32-bit based on your system):

```
sh Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh -b  # Automatically accepts license agreement
```

Activate the base environment:

```
source ~/miniconda3/bin/activate
```

> You should see `(base)` appear in your terminal prompt.

### 2. Create and Activate Conda Environment

```
conda env create -f requirements.yaml
conda activate DDTracking
```

---

###### 3. Download Pre-trained Model Weights

Download the model weights from the [GitHub release page](https://github.com/yishengpoxiao/DDTracking/releases/tag/v0.1):

```
cd DDTracking
wget https://github.com/yishengpoxiao/DDTracking/releases/download/v0.1/weights.tar.gz
tar -xzvf weights.tar.gz
```

---

## Usage

### Preprocessing: Extract B Shell and Rigid Registration to MNI Space

This step prepares your diffusion data for subsequent analysis.

1. **Extract the desired b-shells**
   Use only single shell data. Refer to the `extract_bshell` function in [`utilize/extract_dwi_bshell.py`](https://github.com/yishengpoxiao/DDTracking/blob/main/utilize/extract_dwi_bshell.py).

2. **Rigid registration to MNI space**  
   The extracted diffusion data needs to be rigidly registered to the MNI space.  
   You can use [`utilize/register_volume_to_MNI.py`](https://github.com/yishengpoxiao/DDTracking/blob/main/utilize/register_volume_to_MNI.py) for this step.  
   This process requires **ANTs** and **FSL**.

   Registration is performed between the FA image computed from your DWI and the [MNI FA template](https://github.com/yishengpoxiao/DDTracking/blob/main/resources/MNI_FA_template.nii.gz).  
   A `transform` folder will be created in the DWI directory to store transformation files.

   **Example command:**
   ```
   python register_volume_to_MNI.py \
       -input_image <dwi_path> \
       -brain_mask <brain_mask_path> \
       -template <MNI_FA_template_path> \
       -wm_mask <wm_mask_path>
   ```

### Inference: Fiber Tracking with Pre-trained Model

To perform tractography using a pre-trained model:

```
python tractography.py --config track_config.yaml --track
```

Before running, make sure to modify `track_config.yaml` to match your input paths and desired parameters.

---

### Training: Train Your Own Model

To train a model using your own dataset, structure your data as follows:

```
dataset/
├── sub-001/
│   ├── dwi/
│   │   ├── sub-001_dwi.nii.gz
│   │   ├── sub-001_dwi.bval
│   │   └── sub-001_dwi.bvec
│   ├── mask/
│   │   ├── sub-001_brain-mask.nii.gz
│   │   └── sub-001_wm_mask.nii.gz
│   └── merged_tract/
│       └── tract_whole_tract.trk
├── sub-002/
│   └── ...
```

Then run distributed training:

```
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,... torchrun --nproc_per_node=<NUM_GPUS> tractography.py --config train_config.yaml --train
```

Replace `<NUM_GPUS>` with the number of available GPUs.

## Acknowledgments

This work is supported by:

- **National Key R&D Program of China** (No. 2023YFE0118600)
  
- **National Natural Science Foundation of China** (No. 62371107)
  

## Contact

For questions, suggestions, or contributions, please create an issue or pull request on GitHub.
